---
layout: post
title:  "Testing Two"
date:   2021-03-25 09:34:25
categories: contributor_spotlight ubuntu testing 
image: /assets/article_images/nguyen-dang-hoang-nhu-cbEvoHbJnIE-unsplash.jpg
---

Previously, on a [blog post introducing the Ubuntu volunteer testers](https://www.communi-tea.io/contributor_spotlight/ubuntu/testing/2021/03/25/testing_1.html) who help make each release happen, we saw how they first got involved with testing. Sometimes, this involved a call to action, either for a specific flavour or an Ubuntu Testing Week, where testers from stock Ubuntu and the flavours and remixes get together at crucial development stages. And it just so happens, if you're reading this entry before 1 April, and it's 2021, there's an [Ubuntu Testing Week](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-21-04-testing-week/21519) about to start. So if you want to help polish the beta releases to a final shine, read more about a "day in the life" of our Ubuntu testers and learn more about what they do, and then grab your VM or testing machine and come join the fun.

## What Does a Tester Do?

Chris Guiver provides a thorough overview of the kinds of things a tester does, especially a new tester. Chris has some older equipment he uses as dedicated testing machines, which is especially helpful for flavours like Lubuntu that are often run on older machines. This has helped him find issues, especially in booting, that newer computers might not be able to replicate. "I know this helps other users of older hardware," he said, "as I see requests of support of systems just like I test with." 

Testing falls into two primary types - live tests on a VM or from media and full installs. Chris tends to run full installs "on boxes I don't care about," and runs live tests on "boxes that I don't want to impact the installed OS." Chris and other testers follow the test cases on the [Ubuntu ISO Tracker page](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/), which outline testing scenarios for stock Ubuntu and the official flavours. 

Even though testing can seem daunting from the outside, Chris and other testers want to dispel that notion. "Most testing is pretty easy, eg. a live test involves booting the system, opening each program to ensure it runs, exit and move on to the next program," Chris said. If you have more than one machine you can use for testing, the process can be even more efficient. If you have three machines, for example, you can start a live test on three different boxes, run one test case and open applications from **Accessories** to **Office** on the first machine, run *another* test case and open applications from **Office** to **Universal Tools**, and on the final box, run *another* test case and test the **System Tools**.

There is a little more work involved in reporting a problem, though Chris stresses for new testers, this work doesn't have to be much at all. "They can just file what they saw on Launchpad," he said, "and if they linked the bug report to their report on the [Ubuntu ISO Tracker page](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/), subsequent testers will be asked to test for that issue, and they'll do the confirmation." For more established testers, or those who want to take their testing involvement to the next level, they can not only report the bug on Launchpad, but try to recreate it on another box, and even try to recreate it on another system like *openSuse Tumbleweed* or *Debian Bullseye* to see if it's a bug that needs to be filed upstream.

Lucas Wilm does all of his testing for Xubuntu 21.04 on a VM, and concentrates his efforts on design and translations. This way, he said, he can "check if everything is in order or details that can improve." As a Brazilian Portuguese speaker, his testing efforts ensure "that users of my language have the best possible experience." This testing, in addition to testing for general bugs, takes him about one to two hours per day.

For those who might only have an hour or two to spare per week, however, KGIII has some reassuring advice. "I have a finite amount of time, as I’m sure most people do," he said. "If you too have limited time, that perfectly fine. The people behind the projects will find a way to make use of those spare hours you do have. You don’t have to dedicate your life to it, you merely have to devote some spare hours to the project and you too can make a meaningful difference."

You don't need to devote all your time to testing, and you don't need the newest machines. You don't have to know how to code. No bubble sheets or number two pencils required. All you need is the desire to help out with the time and equipment you have available! If you have any questions, feel free to ask them on the [Discourse post](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-21-04-testing-week/21519), the [Ubuntu Testers Telegram group](https://t.me/UbuntuTesters), or #ubuntu-quality on Freenode.

Photo by [Nguyen Dang Hoang Nhu](https://unsplash.com/@nguyendhn) on [Unsplash](https://www.unsplash.com)

