---
layout: post
title:  "Testing One"
date:   2021-03-25 09:34:25
categories: contributor_spotlight ubuntu testing 
image: /assets/article_images/danielle-macinnes-IuLgi9PWETU-unsplash.jpg

---

All around us, there's signs that April is close at hand. The trees in the South are dusted in hints of purple, pink, and pale green, and there's already a fine layer of yellow-green pollen on our cars. We're packing away our jackets, at least in the Northern Hemisphere, and wondering if our warm weather clothes from last year will still fit after a year of lockdowns and the not-so-healthy eating habits that came with them. (I don't know about you, but I supported the heck out of our local restauraunts.) Americans' e-mails are full of reminders to file our taxes, due in a matter of weeks. And all around the world, Ubuntu testers are breaking out their USB drives and VMs for the start of another [Ubuntu Testing Week](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-21-04-testing-week/21519), running from 25 March to April 1, when the 21.04 Beta is released.

(If you're reading this and you're a tester, find me whenever we're next at an in-person event, and all the caffeinated beverages are on me. Tea, coffee, cocoa, mate, you name it. Because you all have **more** than earned it.)

Whether you're familiar with testing and can burn an ISO in your sleep, or you're wondering if a Number 2 pencil is somehow involved in this process, there's something for everyone in this first of a three part series about how some of our top testers got involved, what's involved with this particular kind of contribution, and why they do it - and have kept doing it for years, in some cases. And if you're in the Ubuntu community and want to start contributing, but aren't sure how, testing, as these stories show, is a great and much needed way to start.

### How They Got Involved

While the top three Ubuntu testcase testers all got involved via Lubuntu, they all joined for different reasons, and all test for several flavors and for stock Ubuntu. 

[Leo](https://launchpad.net/~leok), who is ranked 1st, said "looking back...I was somewhat of a 'Distro-hopper.'" Eventually, he settled with Lubuntu in 2014. As someone who enjoyed playing with Beta and pre-release software and operating systems, "it wasn't long" before he considered getting involved with the Ubuntu community. "Testing," he said, "seemed to be a good way to start." He joined the Lubuntu QA Team in 2017 and started testing regularly.

[Chris](https://launchpad.net/~guiverc), who is ranked just after Leo, also became a tester through Lubuntu, albeit through a call to action. "I read [Simon Quigley's notice about a lack of i386 testers](https://lubuntu.me/this-week-in-lubuntu-development-7/)," he said, "and still being an 32-bit user (with a number of devices) decided I'd expand my then largely Ubuntu News role to include some testing."

Third-ranked KGIII(https://launchpad.net/~uninvolved) also joined as a 32-bit tester, but joined as the result of [a controversial and ultimately reversed decision to revoke 32-bit support for Ubuntu.](https://ubuntu.com/blog/statement-on-32-bit-i386-packages-for-ubuntu-19-10-and-20-04-lts) As David points out, "the reason behind this decision wasn’t that the developers hated 32 bit, it was because there weren’t enough people willing to test with 32 bit hardware." This sobering realization, however, sparked David to take action. "That was one of my greatest motivations to start testing Lubuntu. I love the distro and I do not want to see it get tossed aside due to a lack of testers. As it turns out, there aren’t a whole lot of us testing!"

[Rick](https://launchpad.net/~rick-timmis), one of the Kubuntu testers, also first got involved via testing. After finding the community on IRC (through the Quassel IRC client that came pre-installed with Kubuntu), he was introduced to testing by Jonathan Riddell, who engaged with him and steered him towards the documentation to get started. Rick enjoyed working the test cases, and as became more experienced, he also wrote new test cases.

Lucas, who primarily does testing for Xubuntu, is a more recent contributor, and has been using Xubuntu for just over a year. He decided on Xubuntu as to him, it felt familiar, easy, and fun. "From the beginning," he said, "I wanted to get involved in the community in some way and my first step was on the Xfce Forum, then on gitlab and contributing with translations." This led him to the XFce Nation page on Twitter, where he sought out its administrator, Yousuf Philips, who then invited him to the Xubuntu development and testing Telegram group. Admittingly, he was a bit apprehensive about becoming a tester. "At first I was afraid," he said, "because I'm not a programmer. However, I understood that the development process encompasses different fronts, with tests being one of those actions."

Sai is a tester and one of the newest member of the Ubuntu MATE QA team, but has been using Linux and BSD for the past fourteen years. He was drawn to Ubuntu and Ubuntu MATE as he felt both were "friendly and welcoming" for both new users and beginning contributors. Sai's regular participation in testing weeks brought him to the attention of the QA Team. "When I was asked...if I'm interested in joining QA team," he said, "I felt like a child who was window-shopping a cookie store and got asked by the shop owner if he would like to taste some."

If you're inspired and feel like checking out the latest 21.04 Testing Week, see our [post on the Ubuntu Discourse](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-21-04-testing-week/21519), read a great [overview from popey](https://popey.com/blog/2021/03/ubuntu-21.04-testing-week/), and follow the #UbuntuTestingWeek hashtag on social media. Keep following this blog to learn more about our testers and other volunteer contributors!

Photo by [Danielle MacInnes](https://unsplash.com/@dsmacinnes) on [Unsplash](https://www.unsplash.com)


