---
layout: post
title:  "Testing Three"
date:   2021-04-01 09:34:25
categories: contributor_spotlight ubuntu testing 
image: /assets/article_images/emily-morter-8xAA0f9yQnE-unsplash.jpg

---

Today is the start of Ubuntu Testing Week, and the end of this first community highlight series focused on our volunteer testers. So let's go out in style! We've already learned about [how they got started](https://www.communi-tea.io/contributor_spotlight/ubuntu/testing/2021/03/25/testing_1.html) and [what they do](https://www.communi-tea.io/contributor_spotlight/ubuntu/testing/2021/03/25/testing_2.html) - let's find out why these testers not only keep testing, release after release, but also enjoy it!

## Why They Enjoy Testing

Many of our testers, no matter what flavours they primarily test
for, have kept testing because of the community. "Testing is a
great way to learn more about the systems and software we use,"
Leo says, "and at the same time make a small contribution to the
community." Leo, along with Chris, have both become Lubuntu
members, and although both stated they felt their testing
activity had gone down, the statistics clearly state otherwise. Maik, who primarily tests for the Ubuntu Unity Remix and also tests for Ubuntu MATE, says he contributes to Ubuntu because of its community. "Ubuntu is a great community," Ubuntu Studio and Ubuntu Budgie tester Mauro Gaspari agrees, "full of smart and nice people willing to help."

Other testers emphasize this same sense of responsibility that motivates them to keep testing, sometimes every day. David, who does daily testing for Lubuntu (and is ranked third for Hirsute testing at the time of writing), states that "the most important reasons" for his involvement "are because someone has to and because I enjoy learning." Lucas, who tests with a special focus on Portuguese translations, says "this voluntary work serves to ensure that other users like me have the best possible system when installing on their computers." 

For many, testing is one way to contribute back to Ubuntu, desktop Linux, and free and open source software. Mauro says it is "totally worth" spending his time "to contribute back to this awesome project." Sai, one of the newest members of the Ubuntu MATE QA team, wants to be able to give back out of a sense of "gratitude and indebtedness." Yousuf Philips, the Ubuntu Testing Week coordinator who also tests for Xubuntu, notes "improvements made to Ubuntu's Xfce packages benefit Xubuntu as well as all the downstream Xfce distros that use the Ubuntu base." "In the past I got a huge amount of worth from Ubuntu and FOSS software," Rik Mills says, "so it is a pleasure to give back, and to help ensure that projects like Kubuntu keep going."

Finally, testing not only makes for a better Ubuntu, but also allows testers to discover previously unknown skills and make new connections with each other.  Rik Timmis, who is now an avid advocate for Kubuntu and highly involved in the Kubuntu Focus laptop team, says "it's amazing what can grow from those small seeds of testing." "Being part of a group with this mission is something that I didn't necessarily expect to happen," Lucas says, "but that surprised me positively." David G. likely speaks for many when he describes his time as a Lubuntu tester. "Along this journey of learning and exploration," he says, "I've met some great people."

## What Will Be Your Why?

If you have ever been curious about contributing to Ubuntu by testing, Ubuntu Testing Week is a great time to, well, test it out! All you need is enthusiasm, however much time you feel comfortable or able to spend, and a VM or a testing machine. [Read the intro post](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-21-04-testing-week/21519), [find a quick guide to testing resources](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/call-for-beta-testing-ubuntu-21-04-and-ubuntu-flavours/21636) and join #ubuntu-quality on Freenode or the [Ubuntu Testers Telegram channel](https://t.me/UbuntuTesters) for support from testers like the fantastic people who contributed their experiences and insights to make this series happen.

And who knows! Next year, it could be your experiences and stories here, helping to inspire a whole new group of Ubuntu Testers.

### Special Thanks

Leo Kolbeinsson  
Chris Guiver  
David G.  
Lucas Wilm  
Rick Timmis  
Sai Vinoba  
Mauro Gaspari  
Yousuf Philips  
Rik Mills  

Photo by [Emily Morter](https://unsplash.com/@emilymorter) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)
 